Previously on Battlestar Galactica.
Your doctor
back on Caprica was right.
It's too damn late to operate,
the cancer is too far advanced.
Have you ever heard of
Chamalla extract?
It means that you're still acting
like you're everyone's best friend.
We're not friends,
you're the CAG.
The Chief wanted me
to kick your ass out of bed.
But, clearly, you still need the
rest. Take your time. No rush.
I need new pilots.
And I want you to train them.
I can do that.
They slipped through.
How's that possible?
She thinks she loves him now;
that she can't live without him.
Bothers you, doesn't it?
We'll get them in the end.
I can assure you, the fuel
shortage is our number one priority.
Galactica has ships scouring
the nearby star systems...
and we can anticipate that
they will soon find tylium.
Hamilton?
Madam President,
tylium ore is extremely rare.
If we don't find any, how long
before the fleet runs out of fuel?
That all depends on
how well we conserve.
Isn't it a
fact, Madam President...
that we only have enough
for two more jumps?
Yes. That is correct.
Do we have a contingency plan
if we run out of tylium?
We would...
If that were to happen...
we would use our last fuel...
to jump to
the nearest planetary system.
And pray we're lucky enough
to find a habitable planet.
Madam President, without fuel to take
even the most basic evasive maneuvers...
No...
Wouldn't we be like
ducks in a Cylon shooting gallery?
Yes, we would.
I'm...
I'm sorry.
That is all for now.
Commencing
sweep 87 of asteroid field.
Any luck?
How many times are
you going to ask me that, Boomer?
Until you find
some tylium ore.
Don't you want to be a hero
to Ensign Davis?
You haven't noticed how she always
sits next to you in the mess?
"How's it going,
Crash? You're so cute!"
Damn it. There's so much debris in
this system, the dradis is useless.
This is going to take
100 years.
I heard about
how you found water...
how you saved
the whole fleet...
Jackpot, Boomer. That asteroid
dead ahead is a mountain of tylium.
Check it!
Thank the Gods!
We're heroes. Yeah.
"We're heroes. "
It never fails.
Great, Boomer, the second that I score, the
bus driver jumps in and takes the credit.
Okay, so who's the one
that we suggest... What?
Cylons.
The rock's crawling with them.
We are well and truly fracked.
Only tylium within 12 light years
and we've got to kiss it goodbye.
Yeah, along with our asses if
we don't get out of here fast.
It figures the
Cylons would be sitting...
on the only source of fuel
within our reach.
Still staking out every
waterhole in the desert.
Only this time it's a lake, with enough
tylium to last us a couple of years.
This must be some
kind of conveyor belt...
to get the ore from the mine here
into this cracking plant here.
A refinery this
far from their home world?
Why not? They need fuel
as much as we do.
Now they've got it.
And enough firepower
to keep it.
All right. So we forget this
asteroid, find another source.
You can bet your ass the Cylons
will be guarding that one, too.
So, we send
the Raptors out farther.
Ten, fifteen jumps, find a
source they haven't reached yet.
And use up all our fuel doing it.
How're we going to get
our refinery ship...
We take the tylium
from the Cylons.
With all respect, this is hardly
a time to attack a superior force.
This is exactly the time.
We know where they are.
They don't know where we are.
We'll catch them
with their pants down.
If we fail?
End of game.
So we don't fail.
When the missile
gets close enough...
you'll be pulling maybe 7 G's.
But to catch you, the bastard's
going to have to pile on 40 to 60.
Its guidance system can't
hack it, and it'll miss...
most of the time.
Exactly how often is
"most of the time"?
It depends on your judgment,
and how well you pray.
Attention on deck.
As you were.
Lieutenant Thrace,
can I have a word?
Of course. Take five, guys.
What's up?
How are they doing?
Wobbly as newborn colts,
but they're getting stronger.
That's good.
Got a job for you.
Rumor mill has it
that you're planning an op.
Rumor mill's right
for a change.
Capt. Adama and Col. Tigh
are working up the plan now...
and I need some serious
out-of-the-box thinking.
Out-of-the-box
is where I live.
I've been taking Chamalla
for a medical condition.
So what have you seen?
It started out as dreams of
the Cylon that we had executed.
But I had the dreams
before we captured him.
The images were...
Prescient?
Uncanny.
And now I'm seeing things
while I'm awake.
What kind of things?
Snakes.
There were snakes crawling all over
my podium during a press conference.
How many?
About a dozen.
You're kidding, right?
You read Pythia,
and now you're having me on.
No.
Who is Pythia? One of the
oracles in the sacred scrolls.
3,600 years ago...
Pythia wrote about the exile and
the rebirth of the human race.
And the Lords
anointed a leader...
to guide the caravan of the
heavens to their new homeland.
And unto the leader
they gave a vision...
of serpents,
numbering two and ten...
as a sign of things to come.
Pythia wrote that?
She also wrote that the new leader
suffered a wasting disease...
and would not live
to enter the new land.
But you're not dying.
Are you?
And that will
allow the attack force...
to wipe out
these installations here.
Now, if we do it right, there
will be not be any Cylon survivors.
And the asteroid
will be ours.
What do you think, Starbuck?
It's a textbook-perfect plan,
which is why it won't work.
Of course.
We bow to your vast experience
in strategic planning.
Refresh my memory. What year was it
that you graduated from war college?
What's the matter, Colonel,
married life not all you expected?
That's enough.
Both of you.
We're not going to
win this one by the book.
I want Starbuck in here...
because she's not weighed down
by conventional thinking.
All due respect, gentlemen,
we're not as crazy as she is.
Okay. So what would you do
differently?
To start...
jumping Galactica
in behind the planetoid...
to hide it from the Cylon base
is an obvious move.
You think they'll be covering
their blind spot with recon patrols?
I would, if I were them.
What we need to do is make their
patrols part of our plan, you know?
Make their tactics
work for us.
Here's what I would do.
At position code Deacon...
we'll need three civilian
freighter ships to use as decoys.
Which means those passengers will
have to be relocated to other ships...
which are
already overcrowded.
Yes, if you approve.
The decoy ships will jump
into the enemy star system...
at extreme radar range
from the Cylon asteroid.
Galactica
will jump here...
close enough to launch
its Vipers at the base.
Soon as the decoy freighters
arrive in the system...
they'll break
wireless silence.
They'll be posing as a mining
fleet coming after the tylium...
and pretend to be unaware
of the Cylon presence.
The Cylons
will hear the messages...
and send a force of Raiders
after them.
This will leave the base
relatively undefended.
We'll have Raptors pre-positioned
to keep an eye on the Cylons.
When the Cylons move
toward the decoys...
Galactica's Vipers will come in
from behind, and obliterate the base.
Without the base, they'll be
unable to rearm, refuel.
We'll mop them up, and then
we'll take the tylium.
What happens to the crews
on the civilian decoy ships?
They'll keep their FTL drives spooled up and
just jump clear the first sign of trouble.
How many casualties
do we anticipate?
It'll cost us.
If you succeed, what's
to prevent the Cylons...
from coming back
with reinforcements?
Nothing.
But if we get a chance
to knock out that base...
it'll buy us some time.
Why?
If you keep running
from the schoolyard bully...
he keeps on chasing you. But the
moment you turn around and stop...
and you punch him really hard
in a sensitive spot...
he'll think twice
about coming back again.
So it's either this, or run
out of fuel and be annihilated.
Sometimes you have to roll
the hard six.
Well, the freighters are
yours. Good hunting, everyone.
Operation starts
in 48 hours.
This is our target.
A Cylon base?
You're the Cylon expert.
We need to destroy
their military facilities.
Without harming the tylium
ore under the surface.
Exactly.
A nuke would destroy
the Cylons.
But the radiation would
render the ore inert, unusable.
I see your dilemma.
You're in luck, you know.
Refined tylium contains
tremendous enthalpy...
to the order of half a billion
megajoules per kilo.
If subjected to right heat and compression,
say, from a conventional warhead...
you should get a suitably
devastating explosion...
without
the radioactive fallout.
All we have to do
is hit the right spot.
Specifically, you need to hit the staging
tanks for the refined tylium precursor.
It's a lot more unstable
than the fuel itself.
And where would they be?
I need your advice
on this one.
I'm flattered, Gaius...
but I don't know the first
thing about tylium refineries.
Neither do I.
Come on, you must have
an inkling...
where I should tell them to bomb? No.
But God does.
Oh, good.
I suppose God doesn't want me
to destroy the base because...
he's the Cylon God. Right?
God doesn't take sides.
He only wants your love.
Open your heart to him,
and he'll show you the way.
It'd be a lot simpler
if he came out and told me.
You must remember to surrender
your ego. Remain humble.
If you ask me...
God could do with cleaning his ears out.
Then he might hear what I have to say.
Relax your neck.
Why? What are you going to do?
I said relax.
All right, but please don't...
Where would the
staging tanks be, Doctor?
There. Right there.
Hit any one of them and the place
will go up like a three-kiloton bomb.
Well done.
Forceful, so decisive,
delivered with such élan.
He didn't speak to me.
God didn't speak to me.
I was totally lying.
I just picked
that spot at random.
He doesn't always speak
in words, Gaius.
So the fate...
of the entire human race
depends upon my wild guess.
Attention on
deck. As you were.
How's the knee, Starbuck?
It'll be ready.
I'm not missing this party.
Apollo's leading
the strike force.
You're gonna have to
sit this one out.
I'm the best pilot that
you have. Not right now.
In combat,
you got to pull 6, 7 G's.
Doc says your knee
won't take it.
Well, then he's wrong.
Is he?
A Viper thruster pedal...
requires this much force...
to activate.
Now you're on your attack run.
They launch their missiles.
So you've got to
jam that pedal...
near the firewall...
and hold a 6 G turn...
for 10 seconds,
or you die.
10, 9, 8...
7, 6, 5, 4.
This was only 3 G's,
Starbuck. Not 6.
I'm sorry.
It's a tough one.
But you're staying home.
Keep your
ingress low and fast.
Use the terrain to stay hidden
till the last second.
Make sure you give the flak
suppression unit enough time...
so they can weaken defenses.
You don't think I'm up
to this? Of course I do.
You'll be fine.
Look, you're worried that I'm not
going to pull it out of the fire...
with some high-risk,
retina-detaching move...
the way Starbuck would.
Look, Kara, I'm sorry
you're not suiting up.
Because, believe me, everyone would
feel so much better, me included...
if you were riding
along with us.
But this isn't an ego trip.
This is my job.
And don't think for one moment
that I will not get it done.
I hope so.
Because we've got one shot.
Don't frack it up
by over-thinking.
Nice thing about being
on the run after a nuclear war...
nobody left to complain if we hide out
in their barn or raid their pantry...
while you're on your way to steal
a ship, and get off the planet.
It's odd, isn't it?
What?
That we haven't seen a single
living human being since...
since the one you shot
when you rescued me.
We're still alive.
Why nobody else?
Probably holed out in the
fallout shelters or something.
Two ways out and a lovely
view. What could be better?
A feather bed
and a silk comforter.
You hungry?
I don't know. What do we got?
Peanut butter...
baked beans, corn...
How about some chili?
A simple no would do.
Sharon, have you been taking
your anti-radiation meds?
I think it was those cold
beans we had this afternoon.
You okay now?
Yeah.
How far you figure
to Delphi?
Eight, maybe ten days
if we move fast.
If we start early,
we can be there in no time.
Can't sleep?
I couldn't
either before a big op.
Mark II.
Good ship.
Got me out of
a lot of tough scrapes.
I've got something for you.
It belonged
to your grandfather.
My mom bought it for him
when he was in law school.
You see the engraving on it?
Yeah, I can
barely make it out, but...
He was a better father
than I was.
Dad used to carry that
in to court cases.
Claimed he never lost,
unless he left it behind.
So you're worried, too?
About what?
You know, sometimes it feels
like the whole ship...
thinks Starbuck
would do better.
I don't.
How can you be so sure?
Because you're my son.
Get some rest.
You're going to need it.
Dad?
I'll bring it back.
You'd better, or I'll kick
your ass. It's a good lighter.
Sharon. Wake up.
What the frack! You
killed her... Let me see.
We got to go. Right now.
Wait a minute.
I saw her on my lap.
I saw her blood spill
on my lap.
Let's move, mister.
What the hell is going on? I don't
know. We'll figure it out later.
Jump complete, sir. Dradis
reports nothing but hash.
Just as we expected.
Can't see a thing.
We are now within launch range
of the Cylon base.
Carrier Constellation,
jump complete on station,
point Deacon.
Initiate search pattern Delta.
Ore flight
Bravo. Delta, Wilco.
Nebula, Delta initiated.
The ball's in play.
You can bet
they heard that.
Now they'll try
to locate the decoys.
And when they do?
If they take the bait,
all hell breaks loose.
Until then?
We wait.
Galactica, Boomer.
Tally, 90 plus, headed Deacon.
Speed, 250.
The Cylons
have seen the freighter.
They're en route to intercept.
They took the bait.
Mr. Gaeta, launch
Strike Force 1. Aye, sir.
D, launch Strike Force 1.
Attention. Pilots,
man your planes.
Pilots, man your planes.
How hard did they bite?
Boomer's report said 90 plus.
They've launched
most of their fighter force.
Give them hell, sir. Firing.
Our attack force is away.
I just hope that Lee can...
Lee isn't the problem.
You should take
a good look at yourself.
I had to go through
the same transition.
When you're in the cockpit,
you're in control.
It's hard to give it up.
It would just be a lot easier
if I was flying with them.
All you can do now is wait, and
hope you didn't make any mistakes.
I never wanted
this kind of responsibility.
The Cylons never asked us
what we wanted.
Welcome to the big leagues.
Galactica, Crashdown.
Tally, 50 plus
on an intercept course.
Repeat. 50 plus inbound.
What's that mean?
It means that a Cylon patrol
spotted our attack force.
The base sent out
50 more Raiders to intercept.
Fifty Raiders?
That means we're
outnumbered now 5-to-1?
Weren't the decoys
supposed to take care of that?
The Cylons were too
smart for that. Frack.
Estimated time to strike
intercept, two minutes.
Fireball...
multiple bandits,
left 10 high, range 40.
Weapons free. Committing.
Hot Dog, visual tally, press.
Hot Dog, break right.
Fireball, your six.
I'm hit! I'm hit! Can't eject!
It's stuck!
Deadbolt, Spinner. Two
bandits closing your right side.
No joy!
Galactica, Hot Dog.
Heavily engaged.
Mission outcome doubtful.
This sounds fracking awful. They're
getting cut to pieces out there.
Get out of there! Move!
Deadbolt, right vertical, now!
Dammit, take
a shot. Get him off me.
Mr. Gaeta, abort Strike 1.
Strike 1, Galactica.
Return to base.
Repeat. Abort your mission,
and return to base.
Galactica, Stubbs.
Cylon strike force is turning away
from Deacon and inbound to Galactica.
Noting Raiders inbound.
The Cylons heard our
transmission recall, didn't they?
Does that mean
the first wave of Raiders...
is ignoring the decoys,
and is coming after us?
That's exactly what it means.
So, when are we going to launch the
reserve Vipers to defend Galactica?
There are no reserve Vipers.
Everything is on the board already.
Now we play
for all the marbles.
Starbuck, it's your plan.
Mr. Gaeta...
will you please tell D
to get on the scrambler...
and inform Apollo
the back door is open?
Aye, Lieutenant.
D, please send a scrambler
to Capt. Apollo.
Message reads,
"The back door is open. "
Apollo, Galactica. Back door
is open. Back door is open.
Godspeed, Apollo.
Lt. Thrace,
why didn't you tell me...
we had another attack force
hidden in the freighters?
We... It was my decision.
I routinely restrict tactical
details to those who need to know.
Old habits die hard.
So you still might
pull this off?
If Dr. Baltar's
target information is correct.
And whether we get blown to
pieces by those Cylon Raiders...
heading toward us right now.
Speaking of which,
I'm needed in CIC.
Initial point in 5 seconds.
Flak suppression unit
cleared hot.
Okay, let's do this.
Come on, Lee.
It's all on you.
Incoming!
Weapons free.
By the numbers, people.
Target acquired.
Tone and lock.
Firing.
Tone and lock. Firing.
What's got
into these fracking missiles?
Come on.
They're jamming
the guidance systems.
Strike 2, Apollo.
Then we get close enough so we
don't need the guidance systems.
We'll have to
blow this thing manually.
Wilco, Apollo. Rolling in.
Chuckles! Chuckles!
Oh, frack.
Chuckles bought it.
He's going down!
Now they've got
our attack axis zeroed in.
There's no way to
fracking get close.
Frack.
There's got to be.
We've got to
get out of this flak.
Let's get down below the deck,
down where the target is.
I've got an idea. I'm
going to take a closer look.
Commander on deck.
As you were.
The first wave of Cylons will
be on us in three minutes.
Notify the Strike 1 Vipers...
that they can stop running and
blast those bastards to hell.
Yes, sir.
Engaging Cylon fighters.
Target acquired,
tone and lock.
No, don't do this, Lee.
The conveyor tunnel's clear.
I'm going through it.
You're out of
your fracking mind, Apollo.
What's going on?
Captain Apollo's flying
into the conveyor tunnel...
hoping it will lead him
to the refinery.
Has he gone raving mad?
There's no way to ensure
it does anything of the kind.
Come on, keep it together,
Lee. Keep it together.
Oh, lords.
Okay, I'm through the tunnel.
They can't get
a firing solution on me.
There you are.
Okay. I've got you.
I've got you. I've got you.
Galactica, Apollo.
Mission accomplished.
Yes!
You can tell Dr. Baltar
he was right on the money.
It's one hell
of a fireworks show.
And there's plenty more for us
back in the canyon...
once this place is history.
Congratulations,
Doctor, it worked.
It did.
It worked.
I'm sorry, Madam President,
I'm sorry.
No need to apologize.
Thanks to you, we have enough
fuel to last us a few years.
Commander, Strike 1 reports...
inbound Cylons are
bugging out.
Request permission
to go after them, sir.
Tell our people to pursue
and destroy. Affirmative.
Strike 1, tear them up.
Apollo, you
magnificent bastard.
That was one hell of
a piece of flying...
and I couldn't have done it
better myself.
I'm sorry, I didn't hear you.
I said that I couldn't have
done it better myself.
Well, thank you.
I had my doubts.
So did I.
I wasn't sure that crazy-ass plan
of yours could even possibly work.
You deserve this.
Crash.
Have you read the
Pythian Prophecy, Gaius?
Not since the sixth grade.
I can't say ancient history
is my favorite subject.
You should have paid
closer attention.
To what?
"All of this has happened before.
All of this will happen again. "
Everyone knows that verse.
What are you getting at?
Remember this one?
"Led by serpents
numbering two and ten. "
The Vipers.
They're the serpents?
There's a later verse, Gaius.
You should read it.
"Though the outcome
favored the few...
"it led to a confrontation
at the home of the gods. "
Are you telling me that God guided
my finger to that target for some...
arcane scriptural purpose?
You are part of God's plan,
Gaius.
So God wanted me
to destroy the Cylon base.
You did well. You gave
yourself over to Him.
Yes, I suppose I did.
Yes, there's...
There's really no other
logical explanation for it.
I was...
Am.
I am an instrument of God.